1. The Warlords variant is very interesting to me because it involves interaction between multiple players. I am thinking about how to implement this multiplayer mode through the Internet not just on one machine using several sets of keys. More importantly, any game will be much more fun when there are more people playing.

2. I want to create in a more manual manner three levels of games first. Each level with increasing number of blocks to be destroyed. More specifically, in the first level of the game, I will probably create five layers of blocks. In each layer, the blocks will be generated according to a Bernoulli distribution. As the level increases, I will have more than five layers of blocks and in each layer, at each position a block will appear with a higher probability. This will increase the general number and density of blocks in each level, making it harder as the level increases. Also I will have probably a larger game pad as the level increases to increase the difficulty. To make the block configuration more natural, I will probably have a denser distribution of blocks at the top and less dense distribution closer to the paddle. If this three-level configuration is manageable, I will probably create an algorithm to generate an arbitrarily input number of levels of increasing difficulties.

3. The first kind of blocks is the normal block, which will be destroyed if hit once. Then there are "harder blocks" that have different colors and have to be hit twice to be destroyed. Then there are blocks that increase and decrease the speed of the ball respectively when the ball is reflected off their surface. I will also create blocks that are "permanent" in the sense that the ball just cannot destroy them and the player does not have to destroy these permanent blocks to clear the level. There can also be "redirection blocks" that will direct balls to a determined direction regardless of the incoming direction of the ball. Then there are blocks that drop power-ups once destroyed.

4. Power-ups include one that gives the ball power to wipe out five or six blocks (a harder block is regarded as two blocks, and a permanent block blocks the powered up ball just like a normal ball) before turning into a normal ball. Another power-up can elongate the paddle so that it is easier for the player to catch the ball for a short period of time. A power-up can instantly add a life to the player. Another power-up can give the player double points for a short period of time. Yet another power-up can give players an additional ball to destroy the blocks and as long as the player has at least one ball remaining the game continues.

5. A cheat that allows the player to have one extra life instantly. A cheat that allows the player to turn all the blocks into normal blocks.

6. I am thinking about two substantial modifications. The first is to have the ball not travel at constant speed but travel with a downward acceleration. This really increases the complexity and fun of the game and has great synergy with some cheats and power-ups. The second is to have a scoring system that goes nicely with the double-scoring power-up. And somehow I can have access to a scoreboard from the menu.